Welcome back everyone.
We're going to continue where we left off last time on the data pre processing working of missing data.
Let's head back to that notebook.
OK.
Here we are back to the notebook.
Let's go ahead and continue of the tasks first asking us to review the title column versus the purpose
column and see if this is repeated information which is kind of a strong hint that it probably is.
But go on and check this out.
Will say DLF purpose.
Let's go ahead and just check out what that actually looks like.
It looks like this information on the purpose of the loan whether it was for vacation debt consolidation
and we can always check this out by saying feature info on purpose.
Run that and we'll be a category provided by the borrower themselves for the loan request.
OK so we have that information and we can also check out the same for title by saying title dot head
run that.
And here we can see vacation debt consolidation et cetera.
And let's go ahead and check out the feature information for a title run that and this is the loan TITLE
PROVIDED BY THE BAR.
So essentially we have both a category and a title.
So the title column is simply a string or subcategory description of the purpose.
So it makes sense to actually just drop the actual title column because if we take a look at some of
these examples on the title column some of them are just basically the same information as what was
on purpose.
So we'll go in and drop that will say IDF is equal to DFT drop title along axis is equal to 1.
OK so the next part here is one of the hardest parts of the project because it's filling in missing
data based on the values of another column in the data frame.
So I would highly recommend again refer to the solutions not book for getting stuck on this one which
is why you're here.
But let's go ahead and walk through this.
The task is to find out what this Mort's underscore HCC feature represents.
And if you run Ft.
Information on this that is the feature information function on Mort's underscore HCC run that reports
back.
This is the number of mortgage accounts that people have.
OK so it's go and create a value counts of that by saying def mortgage accounts and say value underscore
counts here.
So you run that and we'll realize here right now that it looks like the majority of people have zero
other mortgage accounts and it looks like that's almost 25 percent of our data.
And then it goes to 1 2 etc and some of these are kind of interesting extreme values that someone here
this dataset somehow is 34 mortgage accounts.
But we're going to leave those in now the main thing we're actually trying to figure out here is what
do we actually do with this column.
If we take a look back at how many missing values we have in this column almost 10 percent of all our
values have something missing from this mortgage account number.
So that means we cannot drop the rose.
Otherwise we'd be dropping 10 percent of our data.
So the other option is do we drop the actual feature itself.
Well that one's up for the bait.
There really is no right answer here.
It's not unreasonable to drop it.
But you're also not missing that much of the data you're only missing 10 percent.
So we want to figure out is there a way we can fill in this data.
So this is one of the hardest things to do if missing data is to figure out a reasonable way to try
to fill it in.
So one approach is to try to figure out which of these other features that we have all the information
for correlates highly with this mortgage accounts and see if we can use that to fill in our information
off of it we'll scroll back down and basically follow the tasks which attempt to guide you along.
So again many ways we could all of this missing data or we're gonna do is we'll go ahead and review
which columns are most highly correlated to our mortgage accounts column.
So you want to check what is the correlation of the mortgage account column for all our current numerical
columns to do this.
We simply say F and then we'll go dot correlation and then just check the correlation against the mortgage
account column and I will sort these values so I run that and I get the results here and of course mortgage
accounts perfectly correlates of mortgage accounts.
But what's interesting is they have this very similar other column total accounts and it's not a perfect
correlation which means it's not duplicate data but it does have pretty good positive correlation.
So you should be able to see from the series that this total account feature correlates with the mortgage
count feature and that pretty much makes sense intuitively that the total accounts would be correlated
to the number of mortgage accounts.
So let's go out and try this with a feel and a approach.
So we're going to do is we're going to group the data frame by total accounts and calculate the mean
value for the mortgage accounts per total account entry to get the result that looks like this below.
So basically what we're doing here is the total account we're going to group by it and then figure out
what is the mean value there of the mortgage account column per total account category and then we'll
be using this particular average to fill in the mortgage account column or missing in information.
So it's a bit complicated right now but let's break it down into steps right now.
I have missing data in my mortgage account column and what I want to do is figure out a reasonable way
to fill it in based off this total account column.
So I will do is say take my data frame grouped by the total account column and then take the average
value for the total account column or when I group buy this so I can see the average loan amount per
total number of total accounts.
The average interest rate per total number of accounts here.
So these are the averages across these different categories of total accounts.
So then what I want is I'm really just as shown in filling in my mortgage account information so I'll
grab that and now I can see the average mortgage account value per total account grouping.
So here I can see that the average mortgage accounts if you only have two total accounts is going to
be zero.
So it makes sense that if I have a row or I'm missing the mortgage account information I will use this
series as a look up and replace that missing mortgage account value based off the total account value
that I know is not missing and fill it in with the average value there.
So this is not unreasonable.
So it will go ahead and do is figure out how we can do this.
So I'm going to set this equal to a variable that I can then reference will say this is equal to total
underscore account underscore averages or means is equal to this so we run that.
So we're going to fill in the missing account values here.
There's actually a helpful link here on how to do this but one way to do it is through a function call.
So I'm gonna build out a function
that's going to be called Fill in mortgage account and it takes in to values it takes in that person's
total account value as well as that person's mortgage account value.
And what I'm going to do is I'll do the following.
If you can use P that is Nan to check if we have a missing value.
So if I'm missing a value I'm going to return something.
We'll just keep that commented for right now.
However the easier one is if I'm not missing any mortgage account value I'll simply return the current
mortgage cash value.
So what if I am missing this mortgage can't value what I want to do.
So what I want to do here is basically do a lookup call off the total account averages paste that in
and then look up what that person's number of total accounts in and that will fill it in with this averaged
mortgage account value off of this.
Okay so that's what this function is going to do.
And then I can simply apply it so I can say def apply and I can do this either a function call for land
expression so do land that save a little bit of typing space but basically this lambda or we're going
to do is call our fill mortgage account and this is actually directly lifted off this helpful link.
So if you check out that helpful link the actual expression if you scroll down it's shown here for you
section various ways.
But here's the expression we were using.
We'll come back here and fill it out as shown there will say x of total accounts
and the X here of the mortgage accounts and we're doing this along axis is equal to one
and we're going to apply that and then we'll set that equal to
the mortgage account column.
This is again one of the probably hardest things we do.
Throughout this lecture series on the solutions.
So let me break it down one more time.
You can go and skip ahead if you understood what's happening here.
But what we wanted to do is we need to figure out a way to fill in the missing values of this mortgage
account column 10 percent of people were missing it.
So we can't just drop those rows and it looks like it may be important enough to actually keep it as
a feature.
So if we decide not to drop that column and not drop that Rose we have to fill in the data.
So how can we do that.
Well we figured out what actual other features are highly correlated with mortgage accounts.
It looks like total accounts is pretty well correlated.
So go ahead and use that.
And then we're going to do is based off total accounts we go ahead and group by total accounts and figure
out what's the average mortgage account value for the different groupings of the total account breached
total account category.
Now we're going to use that as our lookup then if we go through the data frame and we realize hey we're
missing the mortgage account value.
Go ahead and look up the average value for that mortgage count based off their total account.
Otherwise if it's not missing does return back the current value and that is then applied here based
off the information off this helpful link of how to apply a function that basically is a function of
two columns in a pan this data frame.
That's what that Stack Overflow post is answering.
So we'll go ahead and run this and depending on your computer this actually may take a little bit of
time because it is doing calculations for every single row in the dataset.
But once you've done that we should be able to confirm that it's been filled in by saying the F is no
some run that you should notice now that the mortgage account column is now at a 0 which leaves us with
just two left on missing data which is this rival you till and public record bankruptcies.
However this is such a small percentage of our overall data set at most five hundred and thirty five
that we might as well just drop those rows.
Why don't you drop these features.
We can just drop these 500 and so people that were missing their public record bankruptcies and these
270 so people that were missing this particular feature.
So to do that we simply say the f is equal to the F drop N A.
And now if you're on the F is null some you should get back the result that you have no more missing
data.
OK.
So that's it for the missing data part of the pre processing.
Definitely when the hardest parts of this project and this is essentially what we just went through.
Coming up next we're going to see how to deal of categorical variables and dummy variables.
OK thanks and I'll see you there.